This directory contains the firmware for the guider port device.

Instructions for building and installing the firmware can be found
in the file INSTALL.

What to expect from the device

The GuiderPort device has four opto-controller outputs. The state of
these outputs is also displayed on four LEDs mounted on the board.
The outputs are numbered 0 to 3, and are connected to the following
signals on the guider port:

	output		guider port signal
	------		------------------
	0		RAPLUS
	1		DECPLUS
	2		DECMINUS
	3		RAMINUS

The device is bus powered. When it is plugged into the bus it starts
up and indicates that it is ready by lighting the LEDs in a circular
pattern for about two seconds. Then the LEDs are turned off and the
device becomes visible on the USB bus.

The device has only a control endpoint. In addition to the commands
required by the USB standard, the device implements four vendor specific
commands. They should be sent as vendor specific device requests from
the host to the device. The parameters are specified in the wIndex and
wValue fields of the USB request,


RESET, bRequest = 0
	This command resets the microcontroller of the GuiderPort device.
	It disappears from the USB bus, goes through the initialization
	(flashing the LEDs as explained above) and reconnects to the bus.

SET, bRequest = 1
	This command allows to change the output state of some of the four 
	outputs. The low four bits of the wIndex field contain a bitmap
	indicating which outputs should be modified by the command, and
	the low four bits of the wValue field contain the new values for
	those bits.

SET_PORT_TIME, bRequest = 2
	This command sets the time in 100ths of a second during which
	the output specified by number in wIndex should be turned on.
	The time is specified in the wValue field of the request. The
	maximum value is 65535, which corresponds the 655.35 seconds.
	If the time specified in a previous request has not expired yet,
	then the command just resets the timer.

SET_ALL_TIMES, bRequest = 3
	This command allows to set the time for all outputs in a single
	request. Since the time values are 16 bit unsigned integers,
	the standard request structure does not allow for enough data.
	Thus the time values are sent as 8 bytes containing the for
	unsigned short numbers in little endian format. The values in
	wIndex and wValue are ignored.

GET, bRequest = 4
	This command retrieves the current state of the output as a
	bitmask.

Note that some mounts cannot handle multiple guider port outputs being
active at the same time. It is the responsibility of the driver software
to ensure that this does not happen for such mounts.

